well as the war on Gaza enters its 70th
day Washington's urging Israel to pull
back in its high-intensity military
operation and focus on protecting
civilians despite the pressure the
bombardment is continuing Israeli
shelling and air strikes have
intensified in the South killing at
least 12 people and destroying homes in
conun and Rafa US National Security
adviser Jake Sullivan held talks with
Israel's primee Minister on Thursday
he's due to meet Palestinian Authority
president Mahmud abas in rala in the
coming hours
and Israeli troops have ended their
Siege in the Janine refugee camp in the
occupied West Bank after a 3-day raid
the Palestinian Health Ministry says 12
people were killed during that operation
Israel says it detained 60 people it
suspects of having lyns to Hamas and
we're going to join Han Mahmud he's live
for us in Rafa in southern Gaza so
you've been telling us about attacks in
Northern Gaza and now we're hearing
about something else happening in Rafa
what can you tell us
Hy
yes well in addition to the ongoing uh
bombardment and air strikes across the G
stre mly in the northern part and the
City of Han unun there are reports about
extreme exchange of fire at the Eastern
side of raan this is important to point
out that this is not the first time it's
happening it's been happening for the
past few weeks but within the past few
days it there is a surge in this
exchange of fire at the Eastern side of
border which SS waves of concern among
people here residents of RA the 1
million who have been displaced to this
area growing concern that there might be
an expansion of the Israeli military
operation to include parts of RA if not
all of it and this is very consistent
with the reports in Israeli newspaper uh
within the past few days in in both
hearts
and who stated that there will be a
limited op military operation in RAF
including the Philadelphia roundabout
that's we're talking this is exactly the
area that is at the gates of rafah
crossing and there is a road that
connects it all the way to the western
side of rafah City to tell Sultan area
that's Western of RA to the coastal Road
in an attempt to control the crossings
uh between Gaza and and and
Egypt are people worried they are yes
they are they worried they are afraid
that this might be happening which will
increase the difficulty of the
situations people already live in in
very complicated dire humanitarian uh
situations all of this of course
happening under those unpredictable
falling bombs across RAF within the past
uh few
days Hy just we're having a little bit
of difficulty hearing you over the the
loud speaker which I believe might be
coming from a mosque nearby um but let's
I want to ask you about the the school
in conun that was hit previously you
were telling us um about the the
intensification of attacks that have
been happening in canun and
[Music]
Rafa yes well this is not the first time
schools uh become under the uh the heavy
bombardment from the Israeli side we see
an example of this in the northern part
in Gaza City there are confirmed reports
uh from the northern Department in Gaza
that the vast majority of schools a
mainly honorable school and and public
schools and some from the private sector
as well some 250 schools been destroyed
completely but this time we're talking
about an evacuation Center a school that
that an honorable school that been
designated as evacuation Center for
people leaving uh the Eastern side of
hanun when the Israeli military
operations started they move and took
this school as a shelter uh and um when
the when the the bombing was intensified
some of the the evacuates in that school
moved into Al maasi area in kanun some
came all the way to but some 20 families
remained in that school and this morning
as they were waking up and getting ready
to get water and food they were queuing
in the yard of the of the school
artillery Shing targeted the the
buildings of the school and the vicinity
of the area in addition to an air
strikes uh destroying the roads an
different structure 12 people reported
killed the vast majority of them are
children and women and and this is
consistent of what we have seen in the
past uh a few weeks uh children and
women are the one who you will see in
queue in line for water and bread and so
that that explained the number uh why it
is children and women that reported the
hospital being killed because of the uh
of the attacks there are 25 people
reported of of different injuries some
of them are critical also reported to NZ
hospital it's important to point out
there are renewed attacks and artillery
Shing now in Central kanun in Alba
District that's the Heart of the City of
hanun more residential homes are being
targeted more infrastructure are being
destroyed honey thanks very much hanim
mmud talking to us from Rafa Southern
Gaza